---
layout:  post
title:  js-IPFS 0.63.0 with ESM, libp2p@0.37.x, and lightweight PeerIds
description:  js-IPFS 0.63.0 with ESM, libp2p@0.37.x, and lightweight PeerIds
date:  2021-06-05 08:24:35 +0300
image:  '/images/rename.webp'
tags:  [Decentralizednet, Web3, IPFS]
---
#Highlights

    switches to ESM only, upgrades to libp2p 0.37.x and brings lightweight PeerIds

js-IPFS@0.63.0 is rocketing forward with major improvements to its foundations along with many small bug fixes and performance improvements!
#🧱 ESM

A module system lets us organise our code in way that makes sense for our application. Without a module system, everything is one big file and/or namespace and total chaos.

ECMAScript Modules

are the module system for JavaScript.

Other modules systems have been implemented in the past (e.g., CommonJS
, RequireJS

, but these have all been userland solutions to the problem of how to organize your JavaScript; none of them have ever been part of the language.

This means in order to take advantage of a module system, you need to run your code through a bundler such as webpack
or esbuild

, which introduces a build step and means you can't just run a js file. We've got so used to needing the platform (e.g., node) to support a userland module system (e.g., CommonJS) or needing all this additional tooling that adds complexity and makes things slow.

The beginning of change started in 2015 with ES6
, which among other things introduced the module specification.

By now the import/export syntax for modules should be familiar. It's used in TypeScript
, React and other environments, mostly via transpilation by such tools as babel

Back in 2018, FireFox shipped v60, which meant all major browsers supported ES modules. Node.js was the final platform that needed support. Node.js actually released support behind a flag in v8.5.0 in 2017 but it was only with v13.2.0 in 2019 that it came out from behind that flag and with v14.8.0 in 2021 that top-level await was also enabled by default.

With v16 becoming Active LTS in October last year it meant we were finally able

to upgrade to ESM an embrace the bright new bundlerless future.

With libp2p@0.37.x and ipfs@0.63.x both modules are published exclusively as ESM.

There are migration guides available for libp2p and ipfs.

If you are running in a CJS environment (e.g., node before v14.8), you'll need to either convert your codebase to ESM, or use the dynamic import function

to load ipfs and/or libp2p. Note that ipfs and libp2p are only tested fully on Active and Current LTS versions, which is v16+ at the time of writing.

#libp2p in TypeScript

With the libp2p@0.37.x release, libp2p has been entirely rewritten from the ground up in TypeScript.

This has given us a more stable and predictable base on which to build next generation distributed projects, as well as better support for automated tooling, code completion, docs and a generally greatly improved developer experience.

A large scale re-evaluation of the exposed interfaces has taken place which is a breaking change. Please see the libp2p@0.37.x migration guide

for any changes you will need to make to your application.

#lightweight PeerIds

The PeerId
is a core concept of libp2p. PeerIds let us identify remote peers and verify data those peers send to us, since they are either a hash of a public key in the case of an RSA (opens new window) derived PeerId, or the public key itself in the case of an Ed25519

 PeerId.

Prior to libp2p@0.37.x, the PeerId concept was implemented by the peer-id
module. The class exported by this module was capable of all sorts of encryption-related operations, some of which required heavyweight JavaScript modules such as node-forge (opens new window) since the web-crypto API

lacks certain algorithms and operations that are used by the libp2p/IPFS ecosystems.

Depending on these modules carries a significant cost for browser bundles, and the operations they are supposed to support are not used in places like ipfs-http-client rendering the peer-id module unsuitable for use in lightweight front-end applications that may only orchestrate a remote IPFS node.

This has meant that PeerIds are represented as strings throughout the IPFS core-api
which makes them very hard to reason about in parts of the API where a string could be a PeerId, a multiaddr (opens new window), an IPNS Name

or something else.

With the new @libp2p/peer-id module, this is no longer the case and implementations of the PeerId interface

are essentially thin wrappers around Uint8Arrays that contain the serialized forms of the public and/or private keys, so we can now pass them back to front-end code and have all the benefits of type safety.

The cryptographic operations and the heavy deps they require are now encapsulated within the @libp2p/crypto

module which in general is not used by front end code.

This is also a breaking change. Please see the ipfs@0.63.x upgrade for any changes you will need to make to your application.
